Announce for the first release candidate for OCaml 5.0.0 (#684)
ocaml/v3.ocaml.org: data/news/platform/ocaml-5.0.rc1.md

---

> title: OCaml 5.0.0 - First release candidate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: OCaml 5.0.0 - First Release Candidate
```

description: First release candidate of OCaml 5.0.0
date: "2022-12-06"
tags: [ocaml, platform]
---

> The release of OCaml version 5.0.0 is imminent. As a final step before the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release of OCaml version 5.0 is imminent. As a final step before the
```
I think I read that we’re going with 5.0 instead of 5.0.0 for this first release.

Author: The release number will be 5.0.0 for the first release. I think it is a good idea to abbreviate it to 5.0 whenever we are speaking of an OCaml version as seen by users, but I will rather keep the full release number for the release announce themselves.

release, we are publishing a release candidate that you can test while waiting
for the release in the upcoming weeks.

If you find any bugs, please report them on [OCaml's issue tracker](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/issues).

  https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/issues

> Compared to the second beta release, this releases contains one toplevel bug fix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to the second beta release, this release contains one toplevel bug fix
```

and a minor type system fix.

> If you are interested by the changes beyond the new multicore runtimes, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested by the changes beyond the new Multicore runtimes, the
```
I’ve been told when referring specifically to OCaml Multicore to capitalised it for emphasis.

> full change log for OCaml 5.0.0 is available[on Github](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/blob/5.0/Changes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
full change log for OCaml 5.0 is available [on Github](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/blob/5.0/Changes)
```

A short summary of the changes since the second beta release is also available below.

---

> ## Installation instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation Instructions
```

The base compiler can be installed as an opam switch with the following commands on opam 2.1:
```bash
opam update
opam switch create 5.0.0~rc1
```
For previous version of opam, the switch creation command line is slightly more verbose:
```bash
opam update
opam switch create 5.0.0~rc1 --repositories=default,beta=git+https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml-beta-repository.git
```

> It might be also interesting to check the new support for parallelism by installing the domainslib library with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It might be also interesting to check the new support for parallelism by installing the `domainslib` library with
```

```bash
opam install domainslib
```
The source code for the release candidate is also directly available on:

> * [Github](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/archive/5.0.0-rc1.tar.gz)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [GitHub](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/archive/5.0.0-rc1.tar.gz)
```

* [OCaml archives at Inria](https://caml.inria.fr/pub/distrib/ocaml-5.0/ocaml-5.0.0~rc1.tar.gz)

> ### Fine-tuned compiler configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Fine-Tuned Compiler Configuration
```

If you want to tweak the configuration of the compiler, you can switch to the option variant with:
```bash
opam update
opam switch create <switch_name> ocaml-variants.5.0.0~rc1+options <option_list>
```

> where `<option_list>` is a comma separated list of `ocaml-option-*` packages. For instance, for a flambda and no-flat-float-array switch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where `<option_list>` is a comma-separated list of `ocaml-option-*` packages. For instance, for a `flambda` and `no-flat-float-array` switch:
```

```bash
opam switch create 5.0.0~rc1+flambda+nffa ocaml-variants.5.0.0~rc1+options ocaml-option-flambda ocaml-option-no-flat-float-array
```

> The command line above is slightly more complicated for opam versions anterior to 2.1:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command line above is slightly more complicated for opam versions before 2.1:
```

```bash
opam update
opam switch create <switch_name> --packages=ocaml-variants.5.0.0~rc1+options,<option_list> --repositories=default,beta=git+https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml-beta-repository.git
```
In both cases, all available options can be listed with "opam search ocaml-option".

---

> ## Changes since the second beta release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Changes Since the Second Beta Release
```

> ### Bug fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bug Fixes
```
